This is about my book <b>Statistics - New Foundations, Toolbox, and Machine Learning Recipes</b>.mm

This book is intended for busy professionals working with data of any kind: engineers, BI analysts, statisticians, operations research, AI and machine learning professionals, economists, data scientists, biologists, and quants, ranging from beginners to executives. In about 300 pages and 28 chapters it covers many new topics, offering a fresh perspective on the subject, including rules of thumb and recipes that are easy to automate or integrate in black-box systems, as well as new model-free, data-driven foundations to statistical science and predictive analytics. The approach focuses on robust techniques; it is bottom-up (from applications to theory), in contrast to the traditional top-down approach. The material is accessible to practitioners with a one-year college-level exposure to statistics and probability. The compact and tutorial style, featuring many applications with numerous illustrations, is aimed at practitioners, researchers, and executives in various quantitative fields.

New ideas, advanced topics and state-of-the-art research are discussed in simple English, without using jargon or arcane theory. It unifies topics that are usually part of different fields (machine learning, statistics, computer science, operations research, dynamical systems, number theory), broadening the knowledge and interest of the reader in ways that are not found in any other book. This book contains a large amount of condensed material that would typically be covered in 1,000 pages in traditional publications, including data sets, source code, business applications, and Excel spreadsheets. Thanks to cross-references and redundancy, the chapters can be read independently, in random order.

Chapters are organized and grouped by themes: natural language processing (NLP), re-sampling, time series, central limit theorem, statistical tests, boosted models (ensemble methods), tricks and special topics, appendices, and so on. The text in blue consists of clickable links to provide the reader with additional references.  Source code and Excel spreadsheets summarizing computations, are also accessible as hyperlinks for easy copy-and-paste or replication purposes. 

<a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xcIjzWXZXUNr2osPF5oYk9dGl5QXgAKC/view">Download the book</a>
